README.md, before:

# ansible-playbooks

Ansible playbook collection for configuring and managing Ubuntu desktop and servers.

## Prerequisites

These ansible playbooks are intended to be executed on Ubuntu. They have been tested on Ubuntu 22.04.

## Setup

You must install homebrew, if it is not already installed:

1. [Download](https://github.com/launchquickly/ansible-playbooks/archive/refs/heads/main.zip) zip of repository
1. Unzip repository to directory you wish to use
1. Open command prompt and change into the root directory of the repository
1. Execute the following from the command prompt:
```bash
sudo ./scripts/install-ansible.sh
```
5. Execute the following from the command prompt:
```bash
./scripts/install-homebrew.sh
```
6. Enter your password when prompted
7. Follow any post install instructions provided by the output of the script


## Usage

To run a playbook do the following:

1. Open a command prompt in the repository root
1. Execute the following from the command prompt, where 'playbook-name.yml' is the name of the playbook you want to execute :
```bash
cd playbooks
ansible-playbook -K playbook-name.yml
```
3. Enter your password when prompted with:
```bash
BECOME password:
```
4. If prompted for any other values then provide them as appropriate


## Playbook manifest

| Playbook                  | Description                                                                             | Versions           |
|---------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------|
| base-setup                | Install base setup and configuration, including:                                        |                    |
|                           | - zsh shell                                                                             |                    |
|                           | - sets zsh shell as users default                                                       |                    |
|                           | - Oh My Zsh                                                                             |                    |
| checkout-git-repositories | Checkout git repositories                                                               |                    |
| install-chrome            | Installs chrome web browser                                                             |                    |
| install-vagrant           | Installs vagrant and virtualbox                                                         |                    |
| install-vscode            | Installs VS Code with remote-ssh extension                                              |                    |
| git-setup                 | Installs git and configures user.name and user.email                                    |                    |
|                           | Generate SSH id_rsa key with passphrase                                                 |                    |
|                           | Generate SSH host file                                                                  |                    |
| aws-setup                 | Installs AWS CLI                                                                        | v2                 |
|                           | Installs nvm (node version manager) and Node.js                                         | v0.39.3 & v18.15.0 |
|                           | Installs AWS CDK                                                                        | 2.4.0              |
| golang-setup              | Installs Golang                                                                         | 1.20               |
|                           | Configure GOPATH for .zprofile                                                          |                    |
|                           | Install GoLand IDE                                                                      |                    |
|                           | Install utilities:                                                                      |                    |
|                           | - [goimport](https://pkg.go.dev/golang.org/x/tools/cmd/goimports)                       | latest             |
|                           | - [golint](https://github.com/golang/lint)                                              | latest             |
|                           | - [golangci-lint](https://github.com/golangci/golangci-lint)                            | v1.45.2            |
|                           | - [gopls](https://github.com/golang/tools/tree/master/gopls) - language server for IDEs | latest             |
|                           | - [delve](https://github.com/go-delve/delve) - debugger                                 | latest             |
|                           | - [go-outline](https://github.com/ramya-rao-a/go-outline)                               | latest             |
|                           | - [staticcheck](https://staticcheck.io/)                                                | latest             |
|                           | - [gotests](https://github.com/cweill/gotests)                                          | latest             |
|                           | - [shadow](https://pkg.go.dev/golang.org/x/tools@v0.1.10/go/analysis/passes/shadow)     | latest             |
|                           | - [godoc](https://pkg.go.dev/golang.org/x/tools/cmd/godoc)                              | latest             |
|                           | - [godoctor](https://github.com/godoctor/godoctor)                                      | latest             |
|                           | - [errcheck](https://github.com/kisielk/errcheck)                                       | latest             |
|                           | - [goa](https://github.com/goadesign/goa)                                               | v3                 |
|                           | - [protoc-gen-go](https://github.com/golang/protobuf)                                   | latest             |
|                           | - [protoc-gen-go-grpc](https://github.com/grpc/grpc-go)                                 | latest             |
|                           | Installs protoc binaries                                                                | 21.5               |
| java-setup                | Install JDK                                                                             | Open JDK 17        |
|                           | Configure java alternative                                                              |                    |
|                           | Install IntelliJ IDE                                                                    |                    |
| nodejs-setup              | Installs nvm (node version manager) and Node.js                                         | v0.39.3 & v18.15.0 |
|                           | Install WebStorm IDE                                                                    |                    |
| python-setup              | Install PyCharm IDE                                                                     |                    |
| rust-setup                | Install rustup-init                                                                     |                    |
|                           | Install rustup, which installs and manages Rust toolchain                               |                    |
|                           | Install CLion IDE                                                                       |                    |
|                           | Install JetBrains Rust Plugin                                                           |                    |


## TODO

1. TODO


## References

- [Ansible User Guide](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/user_guide/index.html)

Commit message:

feat(bootstrap): add macosx script
- install homebrew for mac
- enable developer mode for mac
- install some core packages via homebrew
- intsall git via homebrew
- generate ssh key
- add ssh config

README.md, after:

# ansible-playbooks

Ansible playbook collection for configuring and managing Ubuntu desktop and servers.

## Prerequisites

These ansible playbooks are intended to be executed on Ubuntu. They have been tested on Ubuntu 22.04.

## Setup

You must install some prerequisites before running the playbooks:

1. [Download](https://github.com/launchquickly/ansible-playbooks/archive/refs/heads/main.zip) zip of repository
1. Unzip repository to directory you wish to use
1. Open command prompt and change into the root directory of the repository


For Ubuntu:
4. Execute the following from the command prompt:
```bash
sudo ./scripts/bootstrap-ubuntu.sh
```

For MacOSX:
4. Execute the following from the command prompt:
```zsh
sudo ./scripts/bootstrap-macos.sh
```

5. Execute the following from the command prompt:
```bash
./scripts/install-homebrew.sh
```
6. Enter your password when prompted
7. Follow any post install instructions provided by the output of the script


## Usage

To run a playbook do the following:

1. Open a command prompt in the repository root
1. Execute the following from the command prompt, where 'playbook-name.yml' is the name of the playbook you want to execute :
```bash
cd playbooks
ansible-playbook -K playbook-name.yml
```
3. Enter your password when prompted with:
```bash
BECOME password:
```
4. If prompted for any other values then provide them as appropriate


## Playbook manifest

| Playbook                  | Description                                                                             | Versions           |
|---------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------|
| base-setup                | Install base setup and configuration, including:                                        |                    |
|                           | - zsh shell                                                                             |                    |
|                           | - sets zsh shell as users default                                                       |                    |
|                           | - Oh My Zsh                                                                             |                    |
| checkout-git-repositories | Checkout git repositories                                                               |                    |
| install-chrome            | Installs chrome web browser                                                             |                    |
| install-vagrant           | Installs vagrant and virtualbox                                                         |                    |
| install-vscode            | Installs VS Code with remote-ssh extension                                              |                    |
| git-setup                 | Installs git and configures user.name and user.email                                    |                    |
|                           | Generate SSH id_rsa key with passphrase                                                 |                    |
|                           | Generate SSH host file                                                                  |                    |
| aws-setup                 | Installs AWS CLI                                                                        | v2                 |
|                           | Installs nvm (node version manager) and Node.js                                         | v0.39.3 & v18.15.0 |
|                           | Installs AWS CDK                                                                        | 2.4.0              |
| golang-setup              | Installs Golang                                                                         | 1.20               |
|                           | Configure GOPATH for .zprofile                                                          |                    |
|                           | Install GoLand IDE                                                                      |                    |
|                           | Install utilities:                                                                      |                    |
|                           | - [goimport](https://pkg.go.dev/golang.org/x/tools/cmd/goimports)                       | latest             |
|                           | - [golint](https://github.com/golang/lint)                                              | latest             |
|                           | - [golangci-lint](https://github.com/golangci/golangci-lint)                            | v1.45.2            |
|                           | - [gopls](https://github.com/golang/tools/tree/master/gopls) - language server for IDEs | latest             |
|                           | - [delve](https://github.com/go-delve/delve) - debugger                                 | latest             |
|                           | - [go-outline](https://github.com/ramya-rao-a/go-outline)                               | latest             |
|                           | - [staticcheck](https://staticcheck.io/)                                                | latest             |
|                           | - [gotests](https://github.com/cweill/gotests)                                          | latest             |
|                           | - [shadow](https://pkg.go.dev/golang.org/x/tools@v0.1.10/go/analysis/passes/shadow)     | latest             |
|                           | - [godoc](https://pkg.go.dev/golang.org/x/tools/cmd/godoc)                              | latest             |
|                           | - [godoctor](https://github.com/godoctor/godoctor)                                      | latest             |
|                           | - [errcheck](https://github.com/kisielk/errcheck)                                       | latest             |
|                           | - [goa](https://github.com/goadesign/goa)                                               | v3                 |
|                           | - [protoc-gen-go](https://github.com/golang/protobuf)                                   | latest             |
|                           | - [protoc-gen-go-grpc](https://github.com/grpc/grpc-go)                                 | latest             |
|                           | Installs protoc binaries                                                                | 21.5               |
| java-setup                | Install JDK                                                                             | Open JDK 17        |
|                           | Configure java alternative                                                              |                    |
|                           | Install IntelliJ IDE                                                                    |                    |
| nodejs-setup              | Installs nvm (node version manager) and Node.js                                         | v0.39.3 & v18.15.0 |
|                           | Install WebStorm IDE                                                                    |                    |
| python-setup              | Install PyCharm IDE                                                                     |                    |
| rust-setup                | Install rustup-init                                                                     |                    |
|                           | Install rustup, which installs and manages Rust toolchain                               |                    |
|                           | Install CLion IDE                                                                       |                    |
|                           | Install JetBrains Rust Plugin                                                           |                    |


## TODO

1. TODO


## References

- [Ansible User Guide](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/user_guide/index.html)
